Update README.md to include sampler and estimator (#10584)
Qiskit/qiskit: README.md

# Qiskit Terra
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Qiskit/qiskit-terra.svg?style=popout-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)<!--- long-description-skip-begin -->[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/Qiskit/qiskit-terra.svg?style=popout-square)](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/releases)[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/qiskit-terra.svg?style=popout-square)](https://pypi.org/project/qiskit-terra/)[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/Qiskit/qiskit-terra?branch=main)[![Minimum rustc 1.64.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.64.0+-blue.svg)](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2495-min-rust-version.html)<!--- long-description-skip-end -->

> **Qiskit**  is an open-source SDK for working with quantum computers at the level of extended quantum circuits, operators, and functions.

Reviewer: * `extended quantum circuits`: I suspect this means `dynamic quantum circuits` (or just `dynamic circuits`). Otherwise, I'm unsure about its meaning. I quick search in the documentation did not help
 * `operators`: Maybe this can link to https://qiskit.org/documentation/stubs/qiskit.quantum_info.Operator.html ?
 * `functions`: Without context, this word is too generic. Suggestion: `quantum primitives` or just `primitives`? I prefer the first one as it is less generic.

Author: We defined the extend quantum circuit in the openqasm and yes I agree we have lost this (I am not sure what version removed it) and we need to bring it back. It does includes dynamics etc. The good news is it is still in the description of qiskit.

Operators is the default way for working with quantum observables. They are an operator and we can call it quantum operators is you need (but there is too many quantums)

Functions are just the primitives and I want to keep it general you can put a quantum function there if need be.

Reviewer 2: See the definition of "extended quantum circuits" here: https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.14722 (second paragraph of the introduction).

Linking to the Operator docs in quantum_info would be fine, but the terms is unlikely to be confused with other meanings of "operator" in this context.

@jaygambetta's use of "functions" is perhaps novel. Can we just say "primitives" for now?

Author: Im good with primitives but I do feel we need to own the visions of quantum functions as we go forward.

Author: how do I edit it to primitives in the web version of GitHub. I see that I could just commit your other changes?

Author: done.

This library is the core component of Qiskit, **Terra**, which contains the building blocks for creating
and working with quantum circuits, quantum operators, and primitive functions (sampler and estimator).

> It also contains a transpiler that supports optimizing quantum circutis and a quantum information toolbox for creating advanced quantum operators. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also contains a transpiler that supports optimizing quantum circuits and a quantum information toolbox for creating advanced quantum operators. 
```

> For more details on how to use Qiskit you can refer to the documentation located here:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more details on how to use Qiskit, refer to the documentation located here:
```

# Qiskit Terra
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Qiskit/qiskit-terra.svg?style=popout-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)<!--- long-description-skip-begin -->[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/Qiskit/qiskit-terra.svg?style=popout-square)](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/releases)[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/qiskit-terra.svg?style=popout-square)](https://pypi.org/project/qiskit-terra/)[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/Qiskit/qiskit-terra?branch=main)[![Minimum rustc 1.64.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.64.0+-blue.svg)](https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2495-min-rust-version.html)<!--- long-description-skip-end -->

**Qiskit**  is an open-source SDK for working with quantum computers at the level of extended quantum circuits, operators, and primitives.

> This library is the core component of Qiskit, **Terra**, which contains the building blocks for creating

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This library is the core component of Qiskit, which contains the building blocks for creating
```

> and working with quantum circuits, quantum operators, and primitive functions (sampler and estimator).

Author: I would rather not highlight dynamic we can use extended as I want all circuits to be extended.

qc_example = QuantumCircuit(3)
qc_example.h(0) # generate superpostion
qc_example.p(np.pi/2,0) # add quantum phase
qc_example.cx(0,1) # condition 1st qubit on 0th qubit
qc_example.cx(0,2) # condition 2nd qubit on 0th qubit
```

This simple example makes an entangled state known as a GHZ state `(|000> + i |111>)/rt(2)`. It uses the standard quantum 
gates: Hadamard gate, Phase gate and CNOT. 

Once you've made your first quantum circuit, choose which primitive function you will use. Starting with Sampler,
we use the `compose` function to add a measurement circuit to the example circuit. In this example we simply map the qubits to
the classical registers in ascending order. 

```python
qc_measure = QuantumCircuit(3,3)
qc_measure.measure_all(add_bits=False)
qc_compose = qc_example.compose(qc_measure)

from qiskit.primitives.sampler import Sampler
sampler = Sampler()
job = sampler.run(qc_compose, shots=1000)
result = job.result()
print(f" > Quasi probability distribution: {result.quasi_dists}")
```
Running this will give an outcome similar to `{0: 0.497, 7: 0.503}` which is `000` 50% of the time and `111` 50% of the time up to statistical fluctuations.  

> To illustrate the power of Estimator, we now use the quantum information toolbox to create the operator `XXY+XYX+YXX-YYY`.

Reviewer 4: I think it would be good to add a note here that the estimator requires a circuit without measurement, hence we're using the `qc_example` circuit from earlier, not the `qc_compose` we just created. I missed that fact when reading through it the first time so i expect other newbies might too 😅

Author: can you add it as a suggestion

```

For further examples of using Qiskit, look at the example scripts in **examples/python** and the tutorials 
in the documentation here:

https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials.html

### Executing your code on real quantum hardware

Qiskit provides an abstraction layer that lets users run quantum circuits on hardware from any vendor that provides a compatible interface. 
The default way to use Qiskit is to have a runtime environment that provides optimal implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. The runtime must provide a promise to the user that these primitives functions exist.

* https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime

As Qiskit transitions to the runtime environment, some hardware is only supported with the ``providers`` interface; however, each provider may perform different types of pre- and post-processing and return outcomes that are vendor-defined:

* https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibmq-provider

> * https://github.com/Qiskit-Partners/qiskit-ionq

Reviewer 4: the ionq and aqt providers have been moved to qiskit community so we should probably update their links here:

https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-ionq
https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-aqt-provider

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibmq-provider is also deprecated (archived).
should it be https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-provider ?

To illustrate the power of Estimator, we now use the quantum information toolbox to create the operator `XXY+XYX+YXX-YYY`.

```python
# 2. define the observable to be measured 
from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp
operator = SparsePauliOp.from_list([("XXY", 1), ("XYX", 1), ("YXX", 1), ("YYY", -1)])

# 3. Execute using the Estimator primitive
from qiskit.primitives import Estimator
estimator = Estimator()
job = estimator.run(qc_example, operator, shots=1000)
result = job.result()
print(f" > Expectation values: {result.values}")
```

Running this will give the outcome `4`. For fun, try to assign a value of +/- 1 to each single-qubit operator X and Y 
and see if you can achieve this outcome. (Spoiler alert: this is not possible!)

Using the Qiskit-provided `qiskit.primitives.Sampler` and `qiskit.primitives.Estimator` will not take you very far. The power of quantum computing cannot be simulated 
on classical computers and you need to use real quantum hardware to scale to larger quantum circuits. However, running a quantum 
circuit on hardware requires rewriting them to the basis gates and connectivity of the quantum hardware.

> The tool that does this is the [transpiler](https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials/circuits_advanced/04_transpiler_passes_and_passmanager.html) 

Reviewer: I think a better reference for the concept of _transpiler_ is here:
```suggestion
The tool that does this is the [transpiler](https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/transpiler.html) 
```

and Qiskit includes transpiler passes for synthesis, optimization, mapping, and scheduling. However, it also includes a
default compiler which works very well in most examples. The following code will map the example circuit to the `basis_gates = ['cz', 'sx', 'rz']` and a linear chain of qubits $0 \rightarrow 1 \rightarrow 2$ with the `coupling_map =[[0, 1], [1, 2]]`.

```python
from qiskit import transpile
qc_transpiled = transpile(qc_example, basis_gates = ['cz', 'sx', 'rz'], coupling_map =[[0, 1], [1, 2]] , optimization_level=3)
```

For further examples of using Qiskit, look at the example scripts in **examples/python** and the tutorials 
in the documentation here:

https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials.html

### Executing your code on real quantum hardware

Qiskit provides an abstraction layer that lets users run quantum circuits on hardware from any vendor that provides a compatible interface. 

> The default way to use Qiskit is to have a runtime environment that provides optimal implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. A runtime implements `qiskit.primitives.BaseSampler` and `qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimator` interfaces.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The default way to use Qiskit is to have a runtime environment that provides optimal implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. A runtime implements `qiskit.primitives.BaseSampler` and `qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimator` interfaces. For example,
some packages that provide implementations of a runtime primitive implementation are:
```

> The default way to use Qiskit is to have a runtime environment that provides optimal implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. A runtime implements `qiskit.primitives.BaseSampler` and `qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimator` interfaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The best way to use Qiskit is with a runtime environment that provides optimized implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware platform. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. A runtime implements `qiskit.primitives.BaseSampler` and `qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimator` interfaces.
```

* https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime

> As Qiskit transitions to the runtime environment, some hardware is only supported with the ``providers`` interface; however, each provider may perform different types of pre- and post-processing and return outcomes that are vendor-defined:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Qiskit also provides a lower level abstract interface for describing quantum backends. This interface, located in
in ``qiskit.providers``, defines an abstract `BackendV2` class that providers can implement to represent their
hardware or simulators to Qiskit. The backend class includes a common interface for executing circuits on the backends; however, in this interface each provider may perform different types of pre- and post-processing and return outcomes that are vendor-defined. Some examples of published provider packages that interface for will real hardware are:
```

Reviewer 3: Two little tweaks, @mtreinish: in line 111, hyphenate `lower-level`, and note that the word "in" appears twice in a row (at the end of line 11 and beginning of line 12) :-)

Reviewer 6: Thanks @abbycross I updated the suggestion.

> * https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibmq-provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> * https://github.com/Qiskit-Partners/qiskit-ionq

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-ionq
```

To install from source, follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://qiskit.org/documentation/contributing_to_qiskit.html#install-install-from-source-label).

> ## Create your first quantum program in Qiskit Terra

Reviewer: Indeed. That is coming in a different PR https://github.com/mtreinish/qiskit-core/pull/19

Now that Qiskit is installed, it's time to begin working with Qiskit. The essential parts of a quantum program are:
1. Define and build a quantum circuit that represents the quantum state
2. Define the classical output by measurements or a set of observable operators
3. Depending on the output, use the primitive function `sampler` to sample outcomes or the `estimator` to estimate values.

Create an example quantum circuit using the `QuantumCircuit` class:

```python
import numpy as np
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

# 1. A quantum circuit for preparing the quantum state |000> + i |111>
qc_example = QuantumCircuit(3)
qc_example.h(0) # generate superpostion
qc_example.p(np.pi/2,0) # add quantum phase
qc_example.cx(0,1) # condition 1st qubit on 0th qubit
qc_example.cx(0,2) # condition 2nd qubit on 0th qubit
```

This simple example makes an entangled state known as a GHZ state `(|000> + i |111>)/rt(2)`. It uses the standard quantum 
gates: Hadamard gate, Phase gate and CNOT. 

Once you've made your first quantum circuit, choose which primitive function you will use. Starting with Sampler,

> we use the `compose` function to add a measurement circuit to the example circuit. In this example we simply map the qubits to
> the classical registers in ascending order. 

Reviewer: if https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra/pull/10584/files#r1288330430 is accepted:
```suggestion
we use `measure_all(inplace=False)` to get a copy of the circuit in which all the qubits are measured:
```

```python
# 2. define the classical output to be measurement 
qc_measure = QuantumCircuit(3,3)
qc_measure.measure_all(add_bits=False)
qc_compose = qc_example.compose(qc_measure)

# 3. Execute using the Sampler primitive
from qiskit.primitives.sampler import Sampler
sampler = Sampler()

> job = sampler.run(qc_compose, shots=1000)

Reviewer: with `inplace=False`, `qc_example` stays without modification, if I checked correctly.

> job = sampler.run(qc_compose, shots=1000)

Reviewer 2: Ok, sure.

> job = sampler.run(qc_compose, shots=1000)

Reviewer: yeap. `qc_example = QuantumCircuit(3)` in line 47.

Using the `add_bits=False` approach in bae815488883cc7908bd4ef5ef9e224761374cb9 . Have a look.

result = job.result()
print(f" > Quasi probability distribution: {result.quasi_dists}")
```

> Running this will give an outcome similar to `{0: 0.497, 7: 0.503}` which is `000` 50% of the time and `111` 50% of the time up to statistical fluctuations.  

Reviewer 2: I want `sampler.run(qc_compose)` to produce an error or just `{}` as there are no measurements to sample from.

> Running this will give an outcome similar to `{0: 0.497, 7: 0.503}` which is `000` 50% of the time and `111` 50% of the time up to statistical fluctuations.  

Reviewer: My comment is about `shots`.

If a circuit in `sampler.run(circuit)` does have measurements, it currently raises: `Some classical bits are not used for measurements.`

Currently, the reference implementation does:
* `circuit` has no classical bits: raises with `circuit does not have any classical bit`
* `circuit` has a classical bit` but they are not all measured: Some classical bits are not used for measurements.

I think a case for `{}` is reasonable, at least initially. Would you like discuss this in depth in an issue?

> Running this will give an outcome similar to `{0: 0.497, 7: 0.503}` which is `000` 50% of the time and `111` 50% of the time up to statistical fluctuations.  

Reviewer 2: Sure, let's move this discussion to an issue.

> Running this will give an outcome similar to `{0: 0.497, 7: 0.503}` which is `000` 50% of the time and `111` 50% of the time up to statistical fluctuations.  

Reviewer 2: But I also think we should leave the text as is.

circuit on hardware requires rewriting them to the basis gates and connectivity of the quantum hardware.
The tool that does this is the [transpiler](https://qiskit.org/documentation/apidoc/transpiler.html) 
and Qiskit includes transpiler passes for synthesis, optimization, mapping, and scheduling. However, it also includes a
default compiler which works very well in most examples. The following code will map the example circuit to the `basis_gates = ['cz', 'sx', 'rz']` and a linear chain of qubits $0 \rightarrow 1 \rightarrow 2$ with the `coupling_map =[[0, 1], [1, 2]]`.

```python
from qiskit import transpile
qc_transpiled = transpile(qc_example, basis_gates = ['cz', 'sx', 'rz'], coupling_map =[[0, 1], [1, 2]] , optimization_level=3)
```

For further examples of using Qiskit, look at the example scripts in **examples/python** and the tutorials 
in the documentation here:

https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials.html

### Executing your code on real quantum hardware

Qiskit provides an abstraction layer that lets users run quantum circuits on hardware from any vendor that provides a compatible interface. 

> The default way to use Qiskit is to have a runtime environment that provides optimal implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. A runtime implements `qiskit.primitives.BaseSampler` and `qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimator` interfaces. For example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The best way to use Qiskit is with a runtime environment that provides optimized implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware platform. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. A runtime implements `qiskit.primitives.BaseSampler` and `qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimator` interfaces. For example,
```

some packages that provide implementations of a runtime primitive implementation are:

* https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime

Qiskit also provides a lower-level abstract interface for describing quantum backends. This interface, located in
``qiskit.providers``, defines an abstract `BackendV2` class that providers can implement to represent their

> hardware or simulators to Qiskit. The backend class includes a common interface for executing circuits on the backends; however, in this interface each provider may perform different types of pre- and post-processing and return outcomes that are vendor-defined. Some examples of published provider packages that interface for will real hardware are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hardware or simulators to Qiskit. The backend class includes a common interface for executing circuits on the backends; however, in this interface each provider may perform different types of pre- and post-processing and return outcomes that are vendor-defined. Some examples of published provider packages that interface with real hardware are:
```

> ## Creating Your First Quantum Program in Qiskit Terra

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Create your first quantum program in Qiskit Terra
```

> Now that Qiskit is installed, it's time to begin working with Qiskit. The essential parts of a quantum program are 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that Qiskit is installed, it's time to begin working with Qiskit. The essential parts of a quantum program are:
```

1. Define and build a quantum circuit that represents the quantum state
2. Define the classical output by measurements or a set of observable operators

> 3. Depending on the output, use the primitive function `sampler` to sample outcomes or the `estimaor` to estimate values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Depending on the output, use the primitive function `sampler` to sample outcomes or the `estimator` to estimate values.
```

> 3. Depending on the output use the primitive function `sampler` to sample outcomes or the `estimaor` to estimate values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Depending on the output, use the primitive function `sampler` to sample outcomes or the `estimaor` to estimate values.
```

> Using the `QuantumCircuit` class, an example quantum circuit can be created:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create an example quantum circuit using the `QuantumCircuit` class:
```

> Usign the `QuantumCircuit` object a example quantum circuit can be created using:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Using the `QuantumCircuit` class an example quantum circuit can be created:
```

```python
import numpy as np
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

# A quantum circuit for preparing the quantum state |000> + i |111>
qc_example = QuantumCircuit(3)
qc_example.h(0) # generate superpostion
qc_example.p(np.pi/2,0) # add quantum phase
qc_example.cx(0,1) # condition 1st qubit on 0th qubit

> qc_example.cx(0,2) # condition 2st qubit on 0th qubit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
qc_example.cx(0,2) # condition 2nd qubit on 0th qubit
```

```

This simple example makes an entangled state known as a GHZ state `(|000> + i |111>)/rt(2)`. It uses the standard quantum 
gates: Hadamard gate, Phase gate and CNOT. 

> Once you've made your first quantum circuit, you need to decide on which primtive function you will use. Starting with the sampler 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you've made your first quantum circuit, choose which primitive function you will use. Starting with Sampler,
```

> we use the `compose` funtion to add a measurement circuit to the example circuit. In this example we simply map the qubits to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
we use the `compose` function to add a measurement circuit to the example circuit. In this example we simply map the qubits to
```

the classical registers in asending order. 

```python
qc_measure = QuantumCircuit(3,3)

> qc_measure.measure([0,1,2], [0,1,2])

Reviewer 2: Just use `measure_all()` instead?

Author: does that work if it does feel free to add. I did not see that addition to qiskit :-)

qc_compose = qc_example.compose(qc_measure)

from qiskit.primitives.sampler import Sampler
sampler = Sampler()
job = sampler.run(qc_compose, shots=1000)
result = job.result()
print(f" > Quasi probability distribution: {result.quasi_dists}")
```

> Running this will give the outcome `{0: 0.497, 7: 0.503}` which is `000` 50% of the time and `111` 50% of the time upto statistical errors.  

Reviewer 2: The outcome is subject to statistical fluctuations. So, I think better would be:
```suggestion
Running this will give an outcome similar to `{0: 0.497, 7: 0.503}` which is `000` 50% of the time and `111` 50% of the time up to statistical fluctuations.  
```

> To illustrate the power of estimator we now use the quantum information toolbox to create the operator `XXY+XYX+YXX-YYY`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To illustrate the power of Estimator, we now use the quantum information toolbox to create the operator `XXY+XYX+YXX-YYY`.
```

```python
from qiskit.quantum_info import SparsePauliOp
operator = SparsePauliOp.from_list([("XXY", 1), ("XYX", 1), ("YXX", 1), ("YYY", -1)])

from qiskit.primitives.estimator import Estimator
estimator = Estimator()
job = estimator.run(qc_example, operator, shots=1000)
result = job.result()
print(f" > Expectation values: {result.values}")
```

> Running this will give the outcome `4`. For fun try to assign a value of +/- 1 to each single qubit operator X and Y 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Running this will give the outcome `4`. For fun, try to assign a value of +/- 1 to each single-qubit operator X and Y 
```

> and see if you can acheive this outcome. This is not possible!. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and see if you can acheive this outcome. This is not possible!.
```

> and see if you can acheive this outcome. This is not possible!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and see if you can acheive this outcome. (Spoiler alert: this is not possible!)
```

> Using the Qiskit provided sampler and estimator will not take you very far. The power of quantum computing can not be simulated 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the Qiskit provided sampler and estimator will not take you very far. The power of quantum computing cannot be simulated 
```

> Using the Qiskit provided sampler and estimator will not take you very far. The power of quantum computing cannot be simulated 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the Qiskit-provided Sampler and Estimator will not take you very far. The power of quantum computing cannot be simulated 
```

on classical computers and you need to use real quantum hardware to scale to larger quantum circuits. However, running a quantum 
circuit on hardware requires rewriting them to the basis gates and connectivity of the quantum hardware.

> We call this the [transpiler](https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials/circuits_advanced/04_transpiler_passes_and_passmanager.html) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tool that does this is the [transpiler](https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials/circuits_advanced/04_transpiler_passes_and_passmanager.html) 
```

and Qiskit includes transpiler passes for synthesis, optimization, mapping, and scheduling. However, it also includes a

> default compiler which works very well in most examples and as a example the following code will map the example circuit to the `basis_gates = ['cz', 'sx', 'rz']` and a linear chain of qubits with the `coupling_map =[[0, 1], [1, 2]]`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
default compiler which works very well in most examples. The following code will map the example circuit to the `basis_gates = ['cz', 'sx', 'rz']` and a linear chain of qubits with the `coupling_map =[[0, 1], [1, 2]]`.
```

```python
from qiskit import transpile
qc_ibm = transpile(qc_example, basis_gates = ['cz', 'sx', 'rz'], coupling_map =[[0, 1], [1, 2]] , optimization_level=3)
```

> For further examples of using Qiskit you can look at the example scripts in **examples/python** and the tutorials 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For further examples of using Qiskit, look at the example scripts in **examples/python** and the tutorials 
```

in the documentation here:

https://qiskit.org/documentation/tutorials.html

> ### Executing your code on a real quantum hardware

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Executing your code on real quantum hardware
```

> Qiskit provides an abstraction layer that lets users run quantum circuits on hardware from any vendor that provides an interface. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Qiskit provides an abstraction layer that lets users run quantum circuits on hardware from any vendor that provides a compatible interface. 
```

> The default way for using Qiskit is to have a runtime environment that provides optimal implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware. This runtime may invole using pre and post processing such as optimized transpiler passes with error supression, error mitigation and eventually error correction built in. The runtime must provide a promise to the user that these primitives functions exist

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default way to use Qiskit is to have a runtime environment that provides optimal implementations of `sampler` and `estimator` for a given hardware. This runtime may involve using pre- and post-processing, such as optimized transpiler passes with error suppression, error mitigation, and, eventually, error correction built in. The runtime must provide a promise to the user that these primitives functions exist.
```

* https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime

> However, as Qiskit transitions to the runtime enviroment some hardware is only supported with the ``providers`` interface, however each provider may perform different types of pre and post processing and return outcomes that are vendor defined:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As Qiskit transitions to the runtime environment, some hardware is only supported with the ``providers`` interface; however, each provider may perform different types of pre- and post-processing and return outcomes that are vendor-defined:
```

2. Define the classical output by measurements or a set of observable operators
3. Depending on the output, use the primitive function `sampler` to sample outcomes or the `estimator` to estimate values.

Create an example quantum circuit using the `QuantumCircuit` class:

```python
import numpy as np
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

# 1. A quantum circuit for preparing the quantum state |000> + i |111>
qc_example = QuantumCircuit(3)
qc_example.h(0)          # generate superpostion
qc_example.p(np.pi/2,0)  # add quantum phase
qc_example.cx(0,1)       # 0th-qubit-Controlled-NOT gate on 1st qubit
qc_example.cx(0,2)       # 0th-qubit-Controlled-NOT gate on 2nd qubit
```

This simple example makes an entangled state known as a [GHZ state](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenberger%E2%80%93Horne%E2%80%93Zeilinger_state) $(|000\rangle + |111\rangle)/\sqrt{2}$. It uses the standard quantum gates: Hadamard gate (`h`), Phase gate (`p`), and CNOT gate (`cx`). 

Once you've made your first quantum circuit, choose which primitive function you will use. Starting with `sampler`,
we use `measure_all(inplace=False)` to get a copy of the circuit in which all the qubits are measured:

```python

> # 2. Add the classical output to be measurement in a different circuit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# 2. Add the classical output in the form of measurement of all qubits
```

some packages that provide implementations of a runtime primitive implementation are:

* https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime

Qiskit also provides a lower-level abstract interface for describing quantum backends. This interface, located in
``qiskit.providers``, defines an abstract `BackendV2` class that providers can implement to represent their
hardware or simulators to Qiskit. The backend class includes a common interface for executing circuits on the backends; however, in this interface each provider may perform different types of pre- and post-processing and return outcomes that are vendor-defined. Some examples of published provider packages that interface with real hardware are:

* https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-provider
* https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-ionq

> * https://github.com/Qiskit-Partners/qiskit-aqt-provider

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* https://github.com/qiskit-community/qiskit-aqt-provider
```
